we could only cover the first five weeks of the war. while new developments were still unfolding as in particular the discovery of large numbers of
civilians killed during the Russian occupation of villages in the proximity of Kyiv which points
to a major war crime and a crime against humanity committed by the Russian forces which
requires a serious international enquiry with forensic experts.
In spite of the ongoing hostilities in March which prevented us to go to Ukraine and other
limitations, the Mission has been able to get access to a variety of sources allowing to gain a
good oversight of the situation in general and of particular issues under review. This was due
to a large number of contacts within international organizations like the United Nations Human
Rights Monitoring Mission in Ukraine and information from specialized non-governmental
organizations like the Platform for the Investigation of War Crimes in Ukraine consisting of
more than 20 Ukrainian NGOs as well as international investigative NGOs like Bellingcat,
specialized on digital open source investigations, but also special university research
undertaken for example by the Humanitarian Research Lab of the Yale School of Health.
With regard to ensuring accountability for IHL and HR violations, war crimes and crimes
against humanity the report highlights the relevant principles and obligations enshrined in
accountability mechanisms at different levels including the pertinent courts, some of which are
already at work. The main responsibility is with Ukraine but the task to prevent impunity and
provide justice is enormous and requires international cooperation.
While the findings of this report are – at least in part – necessarily preliminary, they can inform
other bodies’ more in-depth investigations into legal and also political accountability like the
UN Independent International Commission of Inquiry on Ukraine. In the case of my report as
OSCE Moscow Mechanism rapporteur on Belarus of 2020, based on my suggestions an
“International Accountability Platform for Belarus” has been created to help documenting the
violations in a quality that can be used in courts and in reaction to the crimes committed in
Ukraine a Global Accountability Platform following Russia’s aggression against Ukraine has
been launched which could make a similar contribution. However, the several ongoing
initiatives on the collection and preservation of evidence on the global, regional and national
levels by both public and private actors could benefit from better coordination.
While our report was able to contribute to a first collection and analysis of facts, more detailed
investigations are necessary, in particular to establish individual criminal responsibility for war
crimes. This is a task for the prosecutors and courts which can benefit from the collections of
evidence by professional organizations and from the assessment of patterns and specific
incidents by Missions of inquiry like our own.